dopamine

DRD1: Encodes the D1 receptor. It is the most abundant dopamine receptor in the central nervous system, located primarily in the neostriatum, amygdala, and cortex. It is critical for working memory and influences drug-seeking behavior. 
DRD2: Encodes the D2 receptor. Found heavily in dopaminergic regions like the basal ganglia, it regulates reward, movement, and addiction responses. It is the primary target for most antipsychotic medications. Variants in this gene (such as the Taq1A polymorphism) are linked to reduced receptor availability and increased risk for addiction and obesity. 
DRD3: Encodes the D3 receptor. Located mainly in the limbic areas (ventral striatum), it adapts to fluctuating dopamine levels and is involved in cognition and emotion. 
DRD4: Encodes the D4 receptor. Found in the cortex, amygdala, and retina, it modulates attention and emotion. Specific variants (e.g., the 7-repeat allele) are associated with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and novelty-seeking behavior. 
DRD5: Encodes the D5 receptor. Often co-localized with DRD1, it has a higher affinity for dopamine and is involved in long-term memory and behavioral regulation. 
TH (Tyrosine Hydroxylase): The rate-limiting enzyme that converts the amino acid tyrosine into L-DOPA. Without this step, dopamine cannot be produced. 
DDC (Dopa Decarboxylase): Converts L-DOPA into dopamine. This enzyme is also involved in the synthesis of serotonin. 
DBH (Dopamine Beta-Hydroxylase): Converts dopamine into norepinephrine (noradrenaline). Variants in this gene affect the balance between dopamine and norepinephrine levels. 
GCH1 (GTP Cyclohydrolase 1): Involved in the creation of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), an essential cofactor required for TH to function.
PARK7 and PINK1: Genes associated with Parkinson's disease that are believed to stimulate dopamine synthesis and secretion.
FGF20 and TGFB2: Growth factors involved in the creation and maintenance of dopamine-producing neurons.
SLC6A3 (also known as DAT1): Encodes the Dopamine Transporter (DAT). This membrane-spanning protein pumps dopamine from the synapse back into the pre-synaptic neuron for reutilization. Variants are strongly linked to ADHD.
COMT (Catechol-O-Methyltransferase): An enzyme that breaks down dopamine, particularly in the prefrontal cortex where DAT is less abundant. The common Val158Met polymorphism (rs4680) significantly alters enzyme activity and executive function. 
MAOA (Monoamine Oxidase A): An enzyme that breaks down dopamine (and serotonin/norepinephrine) inside the neuron. 
MAOB (Monoamine Oxidase B): Primarily breaks down dopamine in the glial cells and serotonergic neurons. 
ABAT (4-aminobutyrate aminotransferase): Proposed to have roles in dopamine metabolism alongside its primary role in GABA degradation.
ANKK1: Located near DRD2 on chromosome 11. The famous Taq1A polymorphism (rs1800497) is actually located in this gene but affects DRD2 receptor density. 
NTS, NTSR1, NTSR2 (Neurotensin system): Neurotensin acts as a neuromodulator that interacts physically and functionally with dopamine receptors, particularly DRD2. 
SNCA (Synuclein Alpha): Regulates dopamine release and uptake. Aggregation of the alpha-synuclein protein is the hallmark of Parkinson's disease.
PRKN (Parkin): An E3 ubiquitin ligase involved in dopamine metabolism and the protection of dopaminergic neurons.
GPR37: Affects the activity of the dopamine transporter.
CHRNA4 and CHRNB2: Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits that control dopamine synthesis and release, linking nicotine exposure to dopamine reward pathways. 
HTR family (e.g., HTR1A, HTR2A): Serotonin receptors that cross-regulate dopamine release in the prefrontal cortex and striatum. 
SLC18A2 (VMAT2): Encodes the Vesicular Monoamine Transporter 2, which pumps cytoplasmic dopamine into synaptic vesicles. Without this, dopamine cannot be stored or released. 
SNAP25: Encodes a protein essential for vesicle fusion with the cell membrane (exocytosis), directly controlling dopamine release.
SYT1 (Synaptotagmin-1): Acts as the calcium sensor that triggers vesicle fusion and dopamine release.
RIMS1 and RIMS2: Regulate the priming of synaptic vesicles for release in dopaminergic neurons.
GNAL: Encodes the G-alpha olfactory protein, which couples D1-like receptors (DRD1, DRD5) to adenylyl cyclase. Mutations here mimic dopamine receptor defects.
GNAI1, GNAI2, GNAI3: Encode G-alpha inhibitory proteins that couple D2-like receptors (DRD2, DRD3, DRD4) to inhibit adenylyl cyclase.
ADCY1, ADCY5, ADCY6 (Adenylyl Cyclases): Enzymes that produce cAMP, the secondary messenger activated or inhibited by dopamine receptors.
PRKACA, PRKACB (Protein Kinase A): Enzymes activated by cAMP that phosphorylate target proteins to enact dopamine's effects.
DARPP-32 (PPP1R1B): A critical integrator of dopamine signaling, particularly in the striatum, which regulates protein phosphatase-1.
AKT1: A kinase regulated by dopamine signaling, heavily implicated in schizophrenia and synaptic plasticity. 
PCBD1: Involved in recycling tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), the essential cofactor for dopamine synthesis.
QDPR: Encodes an enzyme that regenerates BH4.
SPR: Encodes sepiapterin reductase, another enzyme in the BH4 synthesis pathway.
PTS: Encodes 6-pyruvoyltetrahydropterin synthase, required for BH4 production. 
MOXD1: A monoamine oxidase-like protein proposed to play a role in dopamine catabolism. 
GPR143: An orphan G-protein coupled receptor that binds L-DOPA and dopamine, regulating pigmentation and eye development, but also modulating dopamine signaling. 
SLC22A1, SLC22A2, SLC22A3: Organic cation transporters (OCTs) that provide an alternative, low-affinity mechanism for dopamine clearance, especially in the prefrontal cortex. 
ADRB2: The Beta-2 adrenergic receptor, which forms heteromers with dopamine receptors and affects their binding properties. 
BDNF: Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor; essential for the survival and maintenance of dopaminergic neurons.
NRG1</entry>** and **<entity>ERBB4: Neuregulin signaling pathway genes that modulate dopamine neuron development and synaptic plasticity.
CACNA1C: Encodes a calcium channel subunit; variants are strongly linked to bipolar disorder and schizophrenia via effects on dopamine neuron excitability.
GRIN2A and GRIN2B: NMDA glutamate receptor subunits that physically and functionally interact with dopamine receptors to regulate synaptic strength.
NPY2R: Neuropeptide Y receptor, implicated in stimulating dopamine production. 
AGTR2: Angiotensin II receptor, involved in the regulation of dopamine synthesis in the brain. 




maybe write it like this 


https://www.youtube.com/shorts/NGyrbLIKQUk alelles explanation section
https://www.youtube.com/shorts/CPwGk6rgrAM adhd page




okay cool. so... now you are ready to code the .js to create this picture on every SNP page, pulling the data from the NCBIs page details... so i think we will ahve to work o the admin page now... cause both relates to the D1....

admin page looks great so far, gg, so... when I put in an SNP for the first time, the Genotype / Magnitute / Chromosome / Status / Notes is all not data I want to add. So with this it should have > Gene, RSID should be renamed SNP. All data for this should be pulled from elsewhere... so... 

lets use rs2236225 again

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp/rs2236225
https://www.snpedia.com/index.php/rs2236225
https://www.genecards.org/card/MTHFD1?Search=rs2236225#Variants_Variants

so.... 

in the .js

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/snp/rs2236225 < rs2236225 is changed out for the SNP added into the admin page
https://www.snpedia.com/index.php/rs2236225 < rs2236225 is changed out for the SNP added into the admin page
https://www.genecards.org/card/MTHFD1?Search=rs2236225#Variants_Variants < MTHFD1 is changed out for the Gene which is pulled from the NCBI first link, Gene : Consequence = MTHFD1 : Missense Variant, this section we should pull everything prior to : on the gene, looks like in the page code its just a simple table, <dt>Gene : Consequence</dt> then <dd><span>MTHFD1 : Missense Variant</span></dd>.
After it pulls the gene to the D1, it can fill in the genecard URL.


claude --resume af0e87f4-6020-4a7b-aba9-861cbe7c0267


https://imgflip.com/gif/am8ne9 gif from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jQJAiPuqt4Q




folate

x SLC19A1 (Reduced Folate Carrier 1 / RFC1): The primary transporter for reduced folates (like 5-methyl-THF) into cells at neutral pH. 
x FOLR1, x FOLR2 x, FOLR3 x (Folate Receptors alpha, beta, gamma): High-affinity receptors that mediate folate uptake via endocytosis, crucial in the placenta, kidneys, and choroid plexus. 
x SLC46A1 (Proton-Coupled Folate Transporter / PCFT): Essential for intestinal folate absorption and transport across the choroid plexus; functions optimally at acidic pH. 
x SLC25A32 (Mitochondrial Folate Transporter / MFT): Transports folates across the inner mitochondrial membrane, linking cytosolic and mitochondrial folate pools. 
x ABCC2 (MRP2): Involved in the efflux (export) of folates and antifolates from cells, particularly in the liver and kidney.
x DHFR (Dihydrofolate Reductase): Converts dihydrofolate (DHF) back to tetrahydrofolate (THF), a critical step for recycling folate after DNA synthesis. 
x SHMT1 and x SHMT2 (Serine Hydroxymethyltransferase 1 & 2): Convert serine and THF into glycine and 5,10-methylene-THF (cytosolic and mitochondrial isoforms, respectively). 
x MTHFR (Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase): Irreversibly converts 5,10-methylene-THF to 5-methyl-THF, the primary circulating form of folate used for homocysteine remethylation. 
x MTHFD1, x MTHFD2, x MTHFD2L, x MTHFD1L: Multifunctional enzymes (dehydrogenase, cyclohydrolase, and formyl-THF synthetase) that drive the interconversion of various THF derivatives in the cytosol and mitochondria. 
x MTR (Methionine Synthase): Uses 5-methyl-THF to convert homocysteine into methionine (requires Vitamin B12). 
x MTRR (Methionine Synthase Reductase): Regenerates active Vitamin B12 for the MTR enzyme, essential for continuous folate cycling. 
x TYMS (Thymidylate Synthase): Uses 5,10-methylene-THF to convert dUMP to dTMP (thymidine) for DNA synthesis, producing DHF as a byproduct. 
x ALDH1L1 and x ALDH1L2 (10-Formyltetrahydrofolate Dehydrogenase): Convert 10-formyl-THF to THF and CO2, regulating the folate pool size.
x FPGS (Folylpolyglutamate Synthase): Adds glutamate tails to folate (polyglutamation), trapping it inside the cell and increasing its affinity for metabolic enzymes. 
x GGH (Gamma-Glutamyl Hydrolase): Removes glutamate tails from polyglutamated folates, allowing them to exit the cell or be absorbed in the intestine. 
x TCN2 (Transcobalamin II): Transports Vitamin B12, which is an obligate cofactor for the folate-dependent enzyme MTR; deficiency functionally traps folate. 
x FOLH1 (Folate Hydrolase 1 / GCPII): Cleaves dietary folate polyglutamates in the intestine to allow absorption. 
x CBS (Cystathionine Beta-Synthase): Diverts homocysteine away from the folate-dependent remethylation pathway toward transsulfuration; functionally linked to folate status. 
x SLC19A2 and x SLC19A3: Members of the same transporter family as SLC19A1.  While they primarily transport thiamine (Vitamin B1), they are structurally homologous and mutations can present with megaloblastic anemia symptoms that mimic folate deficiency. 
x ABCC1, x ABCC3, x ABCC4, x ABCC5, x ABCC6: Along with ABCC2, these multidrug resistance proteins can export folates and antifolates from cells, influencing intracellular retention. 
x GART (Phosphoribosylglycinamide Formyltransferase): Uses 10-formyl-THF for purine synthesis. 
x ATIC (5-Aminoimidazole-4-Carboxamide Ribonucleotide Formyltransferase/IMP Cyclohydrolase): Uses 10-formyl-THF for the final steps of purine synthesis.
x MTFMT (Mitochondrial Methionyl-tRNA Formyltransferase): Uses 10-formyl-THF to formylate mitochondrial tRNA. 
x ADA, x AK2, x DCLRE1C, x RAG1, x RAG2: While primarily immune genes, their deficiency (SCID) can present with secondary folate deficiency and megaloblastic anemia, complicating the clinical picture. 
x CUBN (Cubilin): Involved in the absorption of the Vitamin B12-Intrinsic Factor complex; essential because B12 deficiency functionally traps folate (the "methyl trap"). 
x MTHFS (5,10-Methenyltetrahydrofolate Synthetase): Mutations cause a rare neurodevelopmental disorder with microcephaly and seizures due to defective 5-formyl-THF metabolism. 
x FTCD (Formiminotransferase Cyclodeaminase): Defects cause glutamate formiminotransferase deficiency, leading to folate "trapping" and elevated FIGLU.
x PNKP (Polynucleotide Kinase 3'-Phosphatase): While primarily a DNA repair gene, mutations have been linked to infantile-onset cerebral folate deficiency (CFD) with polyneuropathy, likely due to secondary effects on folate-dependent DNA repair mechanisms.
